Add ERC: Wallet Signing API (#874)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7871.md

---
eip: 7871
title: Wallet Signing API

> description: Adds a JSON-RPC method for requesting a signature from a wallet

Reviewer: It would be nice if you could cram some details about how this proposal is different from `personal_sign` / `eth_sign` in here.

author: Lukas Rosario (@lukasrosario), Jake Moxey (@jxom), Cody Crozier (@wcrozier12), Conner Swenberg (@ilikesymmetry)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/new-erc-wallet-signing-api/22718
status: Draft
type: Standards Track

> category: Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
category: ERC
```

created: 2024-01-29
requires: 191, 712, 5792
---

## Abstract

> Defines a new JSON-RPC method which enables apps to ask a wallet to sign [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defines a new JSON-RPC method `wallet_sign` which enables apps to ask a wallet to sign [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) messages.
```

Applications can use this JSON-RPC method to request a signature over any version of `signed_data` as defined by [EIP-191](./eip-191.md). The new JSON-RPC method allows for support of future [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) `signed_data` versions.

> The new JSON-RPC method also supports [EIP-5792](./eip-5792.md)-style `capabilities`, and support for signing capabilities can be discovered using `wallet_getCapabilities` as defined in [EIP-5792](./eip-5792.md).

Reviewer: You abstract does a good job at conveying the "what" of this proposal, but is somewhat lacking on the "how" / "why". There should be enough depth here to give the reader a high-level (but still technical) overview of the proposal.

## Motivation

Wallets and developer tools currently support multiple JSON-RPC methods for handling offchain signature requests. This proposal simplifies wallet & tooling implementations by consolidating these requests under a single `wallet_sign` JSON-RPC method. This also leaves room for new [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) `signed_data` versions without needing to introduce a new corresponding JSON-RPC method.

> Furthermore, this new `wallet_sign` method introduces new functionalities via [EIP-5792](./eip-5792.md)-style `capabilities`.

Reviewer: This is the second hint at `capabilities` without any meat behind it. In this section in particular, you want to explain why this is a desirable property.

## Specification

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.
```

You're using an all-caps "MUST", so you should include this paragraph.

One new JSON-RPC method is introduced.

### `wallet_sign`

Requests a signature over [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) `signed_data` from a wallet.

The top-level `version` parameter is for specifying the version of `wallet_sign` should the top-level interface change.

The `request.type` parameter is for specifying the [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) `signed_data` `version` (e.g. `0x01` for structured data, `0x45` for `personal_sign` messaged). The `request.data` parameter is the corresponding data according to the `signed_data` `version`.

The optional `address` parameter is for requesting a signature from a specified address. If included, the wallet MUST respect it and only respond with a signature from that address.

The capabilities field is how an app can communicate with a wallet about capabilities that a wallet supports.

> This proposal defines `request` schemas for the three `signed_data` versions currently in [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) (`0x00`, `0x01`, `0x45`). Any future `signed_data` versions can be supported by `wallet_sign`, and their `request` interfaces SHOULD be defined in their own ERCs.

Reviewer: > [...] SHOULD be defined in their own ERCs.

You can't really place meta-requirements on other proposals. I'd recommend something like:

```suggestion
This proposal defines `request` schemas for the three `signed_data` versions currently in [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) (`0x00`, `0x01`, `0x45`). Any future `signed_data` versions can be supported by `wallet_sign`, and their `request` interfaces are left to future ERCs.
```

};
```

##### Request Interfaces

Below are `request` interfaces for the `signed_data` `version`s specified in [EIP-191](./eip-191.md) at time of writing. These include:
* `0x00` - Data with intended validator
* `0x01` - [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) Typed Data
* `0x45` - Personal Sign

Any new `request` interfaces corresponding to new `signed_data` `version`s SHOULD be defined in their own ERCs.

```typescript
type ValidatorRequest = {
  type: '0x00';
  data: {
    validator: `0x${string}`; // Intended validator address
    data: `0x${string}`; // Data to sign
  };
}

type TypedDataRequest = {
  type: '0x01';
  data: {
    ...TypedData // TypedData as defined by EIP-712
  }
}

type PersonalSignRequest = {
  type: '0x45';
  data: {
    message: string; // UTF-8 message string
  }
}
```

##### `wallet_sign` Example Parameters

```json
{
  "version": "1.0",
  "request": {
    "type": "0x45",
    "data": {
      "message": "Hello world"
    }
  }
}
```

##### `wallet_sign` Example Return Value

```json
{
  "signature": "0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000e670ec64341771606e55d6b4ca35a1a6b75ee3d5145a99d05921026d1527331",
}
```

## Rationale

> TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO -->
```

## Backwards Compatibility

> TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO -->
```

## Security Considerations

> TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO -->
```
